http://www.gaadi.com/news/2014-new-volvo-s60-india-and-vovo-lounge-igi-airport-delhi-2628
New Volvo S80 launched along with the Volvo Lounge in Delhi 

Volvo Auto India has launched its first exclusive Lounge in the country and on the sidelines, has also launched the new Volvo S80 luxury sedan.India’s first Volvo Lounge is located at the famous Terminal 3 Domestic Departure of the IGI International Airport, New Delhi. The Lounge offers true Scandinavian luxury experience to the discerning travelers before they embark on their journies and also helps them get familiarized with the brand’s key strengths.
Volvo models would be on public display at the lounge entrance which is accessible for all the travelers. However, the entry into the Lounge is ‘by invitation’ only. Volvo Customers and VIP guests would enjoy Platinum and Gold cards respectively.
Apart from launching the Lounge, Volvo has also used the opportunity to introduce the new S80 in our market. The new sedan which was launched in the international markets last year sports subtle design revisions such as a sleeker front grille and headlamps integrated with LED daytime running lights. The bumpers are also tweaked a bit to give the car a fresh appeal, while the interior gets new digital TFT instrument cluster. The updated car also comes with integrated dual exhaust tail pipes.
In terms of equipment, the 2014 Volvo S80 comes with City Safety (anti-collision system), paddle shifters and Pedestrian and City Cyclist Detection with full auto brake.
The new S80 is powered either by a 2.0-litre in-line five cylinder D4 diesel engine that is capable of 163 HP of power and 400 Nm of torque or by a 2.4-litre D5 diesel engine, also an in-line five cylinder unit which produces 215 HP/400 Nm. The D5 delivers an impressive claimed fuel economy of 14.69 kmpl.
The Volvo S80 D4 is priced at Rs. 41.35 lakh while the S80 D5 retails at Rs. 44.80 lakh, both the prices being ex-showroom New Delhi. The Swedish luxury sedan would lock horns with the likes of Audi A6, BMW 5-Series and Mercedes E-Class.
