http://www.livemint.com/Industry/xbq8P3eYtODKpS0HOMUYfJ/TCS-warns-of-weak-Q4-but-says-201415-will-be-good.html
TCS warns of weak Q4, but says 2014-15 will be good

India’s largest software services company Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (TCS) said in a meeting with analysts on Tuesday that it expects a weak fourth quarter on account of a slow start to the year after the holiday season and a “softer” Indian market, echoing the sentiments expressed by rival Infosys Ltd last week.
Unlike Infosys, though, TCS indicated that it expects its revenue growth next financial year to exceed that of the industry. Analysts expect TCS to grow revenue by 16-17% in 2014-15. Industry lobby group Nasscom expects the industry to expand 13-15% in the same period.
At an investors’ conference last Wednesday, Infosys founder and executive chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy indicated that a turnaround at Infosys might be a long-drawn-out affair, saying the company would need at least three to five years to get back to or exceed industry growth rates.
“If the growth rate in Q4 is lower than expected, it will set the base for FY15 and will impact our FY15 growth rate... We expect our near-term results to be choppy,” Infosys chief executive officer S.D. Shibulal, who will retire from the company in March next year, said.
Based on TCS’ Tuesday briefing, analysts expect the company to grow its revenue 1.5-2.5% in the March quarter over the three months ended 31 December.
The analyst meeting was addressed by TCS finance chief Rajesh Gopinathan.
A TCS spokesperson declined to comment on an email sent in this regard.
Three analysts who attended the briefing said that the company expects its profit margins in the March quarter to be lower than that in the December quarter by 40-50 basis points. One basis point is 
one-hundredth of a percentage point.
TCS, which generates about 17-18% of its overall revenue from emerging markets such as India, said it expected revenue from India to decline in the March quarter and remain under pressure in the near term following uncertainty during an election year that is delaying many projects, one of the analysts said.
None of the three analysts wanted to be identified.
While Infosys’s Murthy has said for some time now that he needs three years to turn around the fortunes of the company, a number of analysts and investors believed the company would recover faster given its history of conservative forecasts.
In less than a year since Murthy took charge, Infosys’s valuation discount relative to TCS narrowed to as low as 12% at the end of February from over 30%. (The measure used here is stock price expressed as a multiple of trailing 12-month earnings per share).
After the company’s guidance last week, investors beat down its stock 10%, and the stocks of some of its peers fell too.
Two analysts said that they believed Infosys’ problems were company-specific and not indicators of demand across India’s $118 billion IT business.
“We reached out to some of Infosys’s peers after the company’s announcement of weakness in demand environment,” said JP Morgan India analysts Viju George and Amit Sharma in an 18 March note. “They aver demand is healthy.”
“Sure, retail and a couple of other verticals in fourth-quarter have been tough because of the extreme weather (winter) in the US but that need only be a fourth-quarter impact—it need not be extrapolated to the rest of CY14 (calendar year 2014), as per peers,” they added.
On Tuesday, shares of TCS dropped 0.87% to close at Rs.2,122.55 while those of Infosys dropped 1.19% to close at Rs.3,349.25 on the BSE, while the benchmark Sensex gained 0.1% to 21,832.61 points and the BSE IT Index dropped 0.82% to 8,867.10 points.
Since the beginning of the year, shares of TCS have declined 2.23% and Infosys, 3.91%, while the benchmark Sensex has gained 3.13%. The BSE IT Index has lost 2.36% in this period.